---
description: How the Governance Game works
---

# Governance Game

### Overview

The Xahau Governance Game allows up to 400 stakeholders to democratically participate in the management of the Xahau network via the Governance Hook, which is installed on the Genesis Account.

### Layer 1

The game consists of a "Layer 1" table at which there are 20 seats. Each seat may be filled by a Xahau account (r-address) or be empty. When a seat is filled, it is said that a member of the table sits there.

To play the game, the members of the table cast votes. The votes are for one of three types of topic:

* Seat topics
* Hook topics
* Reward topics.

Seat topics are S00 through S19 and represent a vote for who (if anyone) currently sits in that seat. A vote of 80% is sufficient to action a change. The voting process is continuous with the final vote that crosses the threshold actioning the change.

Hook topics are H0 through H9 and represent which Hooks, including the Governance Hook itself, are installed on the table's account. These topics require 100% of the members seated at that table to agree before a change can be made. This allows the Governance Game to be updated and for more genesis account features to be added over time.

Reward topics are RR and RD which stand for Reward-Rate and Reward-Delay, respectively. These topics also require 100% of the members at the table to agree in order to action a change. These parameters affect the BalanceAdjustments system: how much each active user on the network can claim and how often.

### Layer 2

The members who fill seats on the Layer 1 table are Xahau accounts (r-addresses). The governance game is designed to be structurally recursive, such that one of these accounts may itself be a table consisting of a further 20 seats. This is called a Layer 2 table, and the seats are Layer 2 seats.

Within a Layer 2 table the same seat voting and hook voting topics exist, with the same voting rules as the Layer 1 table. This allows a table to govern its own membership and the hooks that run there.

In addition to these topics a Layer 2 table may also, by 51% vote, raise a vote to the Layer 1 table. This is a vote on behalf of the r-address that the Layer 2 table exists on, and counts as a single vote at the Layer 1 table.

The Layer 2 table vote may fall below 51% in which case the vote originally raised to the Layer 1 table is retracted.

Layer 2 tables can only vote on Reward topics via a vote raised to Layer 1.

In summary Layer 2 members can vote for:

* Seats and Hooks for their own table, and
* Seats, Hooks and Reward topics for the L1 table via the Layer 1 seat their Layer 2 table resides in.

### Game Constraints

* Any table may have at fewest 2 members and at most 20 members.
* A single r-address can only occupy one seat at a given table, but may occupy one seat at each of many different tables.
* The Governance Game is not designed to recurse beyond two layers. There's no technical infeasibility in implementing a Layer 3 table, but the current Governance Hook does not support it.

### Validator Rewards

Validator rewards are an incentive for running a validator on the network. The rewards are generated by the network and granted to the intersection of Layer 1 members and UNL validators. To qualify for validator rewards within a given block of 256 ledgers the following must be true:

* The validator is on the Xahau UNL.
* The validator validates successfully in the eyes of other UNL validators.
* When the validator's master public key is converted to an r-address, that account sits at the L1 Table.

Rewards are ad-hoc and based on user's Balance Adjustments. When a user performs a Balance Adjustment, an amount equal to their adjustment divided by 20 is sent to the r-address of each of the active validators that meet the above criteria.



###



